I just sat down on this rock, on a
substance of some sort. This was as I
was starting the newsletter, and this
phrase of I have wisdom to share coming
through me over and over and over. And I
was just watching this crazy
visualization of some kind of sitting
Buddha thing, and that was for 3 hours.
It gave me the confidence that like,
okay, maybe I do have things to share.
>> What do you want to say to our mothers
right now?
>> My mom doesn't
>> to take that back? You started your
newsletter 2019, and it now has over a
million subscribers.
>> 1.2 million.
>> 1.2.
>> Something that we've talked about a few
times is the best stuff comes from
actual experience.
>> People always say if you want to write,
read.
>> The source of the best advice is from
practitioners doing the thing for real.
At this point, most of my posts are
guest posts, where somebody's sharing
the best thing they've learned in their
career.
>> What do you think you'd be doing right
now if you hadn't started that
newsletter?
>> On the struggle bus of startup life,
probably. And then, probably after that
failed, I would have joined at some
company as a PM.
>> Do you still like it?
>> I can't imagine doing something more
fulfilling and interesting, but the
visual I always have is the Indiana
Jones boulder is chasing me constantly.
It's like this treadmill you're on.
>> Tell me about a time you've been really
stressed in your business.
>> Well, here's something I've never
shared.
Today, my guest is my brilliant,
incredible wife, Michelle Rial, who
turns the table and interviews me. I've
had so many people over the years want
me to be interviewed on this podcast,
and what could be more fun than doing
this with my wife? I share things during
this conversation that I've never shared
anywhere else, including some of the
hardest moments from this journey. I get
a lot more personal than I've ever been
on this podcast. Also, the day this
podcast comes out just happens to be my
wife's birthday, and she is also about
to publish her third book, a children's
book called Charts for Babies, which we
chat briefly about. Definitely pre-order
it. This was so fun and so special. I
hope you love it. Let's get into it.
Here's a puzzle for you. What do OpenAI,
Cursor, Perplexity, Vercel, Plaid, and
hundreds of other winning companies have
in common? The answer is they're all
powered by today's sponsor, WorkOS. If
you're building software for
enterprises, you've probably felt the
pain of integrating single sign-on,
SCIM, RBAC, audit logs, and other
features required by big customers.
WorkOS turns those deal blockers into
drop-in APIs with a modern developer
platform built specifically for B2B
SaaS. Whether you're a seed-stage
startup trying to land your first
enterprise customer or a unicorn
expanding globally, WorkOS is the
fastest path to becoming enterprise
ready and unlocking growth. They're
essentially Stripe for enterprise
features. Visit workos.com to get
started or just hit up their Slack
support, where they have real engineers
in there who answer your questions super
fast. WorkOS allows you to build like
the best with delightful APIs,
comprehensive docs, and a smooth
developer experience. Go to workos.com
to make your app enterprise ready today.
Who says hiring has to be fair? Every
founder and hiring manager I've been
speaking with these days is feeling the
same pressure. Hire the best people as
fast as possible. But, recruiting is
time-consuming, alignment is hard, and
competition for great talent keeps
getting tighter. That's why teams like
Eleven Labs, Brex, Replit, Deel, and
5,000 other organizations use Metaview,
the AI company giving high-performance
teams a real unfair advantage in hiring.
They give you a suite of AI agents that
behave like recruiting coworkers. They
find candidates for you based on your
exact criteria, take interview notes
automatically, gather insights across
your hiring process, and help you
identify the best candidates in your
pipeline. AI handles the recruiting toil
and gives you a real source of truth.
That means hours saved per hire and a
team focused on what matters most,
winning the right candidates. Don't let
your competitors out-hire you. Metaview
customers close roles 30% faster. Try
Metaview today for free and get an extra
month of sourcing at metaview.ai/lenny.
That's m e t a view.ai/lenny.
Michelle Rial, thank you so much for
being here. Welcome to the podcast.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> So, what are we doing here?
Uh people constantly ask me to get
interviewed myself. People are like,
"Why don't you sit on the other side of
the microphone and get interviewed?" And
I'm just like, "Nah, I like
interviewing."
Uh but, you have a book coming out.
And we thought this would be a fun
opportunity to uh have you interview me.
And so, this is going to be your show.
I'm just going to be here asking me
whatever you want. I have no idea what
you're going to ask me. And uh we'll see
where it goes. And I'm going to ask you
some questions about your book, too. So,
I'll turn it over to you, Michelle. What
do you got What do you got for me?
>> okay.
Babe.
Yeah.
Um yeah. So, your you started your
newsletter 2019.
And it now has over a million
subscribers.
>> 1.2 million.
>> 1.2, sorry.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh and your podcast is uh you very
frequently one of the top 10, is that
right?
>> Yep. It's like right around Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Top 10 tech podcasts.
>> Yes. Hell yeah.
>> I love it. When I met you, I think you
were something called a product
engineer.
>> I was a software engineer. Let's see
when you met me. No, I think it was a I
think it was still a software engineer,
yeah.
>> I think you went from software engineer
to product engineer to product manager.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I think that's right.
>> wondering what do you What do you think
you'd be doing right now if you hadn't
started that newsletter?
>> If I like stayed in my job.
>> Yeah, if you hadn't and then that I
mean, I'll get to another question about
what do you think is the one moment that
led you to your newsletter, but you can
answer either one.
>> So, is the question after I left Airbnb,
what would I be doing? Or is it like if
I didn't
>> Just if you if you hadn't
or if you had gotten a different job. Do
you think you would have gotten a
different job? Stayed there?
>> So, when I left my job, I was at Airbnb
for 7 years. I was I had like plan A,
start a company again. Plan B, join a
startup as like their first PM. Plan C,
join a big company as a PM. Plan D,
advise companies, become a consultant
kind of person. Nowhere in that plan was
like do this crazy thing that I do now.
I had a lot of startup ideas. As I was
exploring the startup ideas, as you
remember, I was just like tinkering and
prototyping and building stuff. And then
on the side I was writing
things that I learned and things I
wanted to share. And you were just like,
"Why are you writing? Why do you There's
You can't make money on the internet
writing. You should be doing this thing
that you're good at, startups and
building and tech and stuff like that."
And I'm just like, "I don't know. It
seems like there's a pull here, so I'm
just going to keep doing this."
>> I don't know if I said things that
you're good at. I just said I just said
like as a person
putting writing on the internet. I don't
make any
money unless people buy my book, yeah.
Plug.
>> Ta-da.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, I guess to answer your
question, I probably find another
company to start and it probably would
have failed.
Considering most startups fail. So, I'd
probably be in this like oh, no, this is
this thing I think I should be doing.
I'd be in a on the on the struggle bus
of startup life, probably. And then
probably after that failed, I would have
joined a some company, I guess, as a PM.
>> So, then I guess going back to that
question of what what do you think Do
you think there's a moment or a
collection of moments that led you to go
full in on the newsletter or even start
the newsletter, start the medium post
that led to the newsletter?
>> Yeah, it was definitely a collection of
moments. It's kind of this like little
journey that I just followed pull that
was starting to work. And I'm just like,
"Huh, maybe there's something here."
So, a few moments along that journey.
One was the first thing I wrote on the
This is like the first thing I wrote on
the internet.
Did very well. It was this post on what
I learned at Airbnb. Like Medium
featured it. It went all over the place.
Brian Chesky shared with the whole
company. So proud of what I shared. So,
that was a nice moment of like, maybe I
have something to share. And then I
wrote a few more things on Medium at
this point. And there was more of just
like, hm,
this is working. People seem to like it.
Then I had a conversation with this with
a friend, Lee Jacobs, who's a VC now.
Cuz I was telling him, I don't know what
I'm I don't know what I'm doing this.
Why am I writing? This is like not a
future. I should be focusing on the
startup. And he's just like, you seem to
be enjoying it. People seem to be liking
it.
Which is very rare, that Venn diagram of
things. Just like, how often do you
enjoy something and people value it?
And maybe there's a way to make money in
in the future. So, his advice is just
maybe pursue that and double down on
that and maybe it'll go somewhere. So,
that was a moment.
Another maybe big moment was
9 months of doing the newsletter. So, I
decided, I'm going to move to Substack.
I'm going to write every week. I
tweeted, I'm going to experiment with
the newsletter, a weekly newsletter. See
how it goes.
Uh and so, I did that every week for 9
months. And I just remember this moment
9 months in where I was like, huh,
I've been doing this every week for 9
months.
Which means I could probably do this for
9 more months. There's this uh Lindy
effect. I don't know if you know this,
but there's this concept of a thing
something being Lindy, which is uh as
long as it's been going for,
it will most likely last at least that
long in the future. So, I thought that,
okay, I could do this for at least
probably another year. I have all these
ideas and things I want to write about.
So, let me just keep doing this. So,
that's when I decided to add the paywall
and start charging and to see if I could
make money doing this thing. Also, in
parallel, as you know, uh
I was doing this based on the assumption
that my Airbnb stock was going to be
worth something and I could take this
time to explore.
And then COVID hit and Airbnb might have
I was like, over.
RIP Airbnb all over Twitter. And I was
like, huh, maybe I need to
get a job for real. And so I'm like, I
got to make money on this thing. Let me
try. So that's when I
started the paywall. And so And then And
then it worked. That's like the other
moment I think. I launched the paywall.
And it worked. You know, I made
meaningful dollars like a month in.
>> So speaking of Venn diagram, you said,
I'm good at it and I and I people like
it.
>> like it.
>> Oh, and I like doing it. You like doing
it.
>> That's a really good cuz I didn't
mention that. Okay. That's so That's so
true.
>> Well, that's the Ikigai, right? Yeah.
>> Yeah, I think Ikigai is like five
things, right? It's like a whole bunch
of stuff. Yeah, but that's like a
trigger point cuz it was just like,
people like it and I'm good at it.
>> Mhm.
>> But without the actually enjoy it.
>> I think you said, I and I like doing it.
>> it. Okay, cool.
>> Do you still like it?
>> I do.
In almost every way. Like, I can't
imagine doing
something more fulfilling and
interesting.
Just basically, um, my job is to write
about things that are interesting and
share people's interesting insights and
experiences. And interview people and
extract wisdom. It's just like, so
interesting. It's my own thing, which
makes it extra interesting. But
I think a lot about uh this artist Finch
wrote this blog post, How to Become an
Artist.
And at the top of his post, he's just
like, you prob- you should not become a
professional artist most likely because
Yeah.
Because once it's a thing you have to
do, it changes it. You have You know,
you have to do it. So now I'm on this
like this is the downside. But I just
want to preface with saying, this is
incredible and I can't imagine doing
anything else
that I enjoy more. But
uh having to write a post or put out a
post every single week and a podcast
episode every week, you know, it's like
this treadmill that you're on. So you
have to kind of get used to that. That
part is no fun. But again, I can't think
of anything better that I could be
doing.
And And it kind of goes up and down.
Sometimes like I love it. I'm so happy I
get to write a thing every single week.
And then some weeks I'm like, "It'd be
cool not to do it this week." But that's
part of this life, you know? Cuz
otherwise you can't do this. You can't
You can't survive in this way if you're
not doing something consistently and
making it awesome every week.
So, it's a part of it. So, the visual I
always have is the Indiana Jones
uh boulder is chasing me constantly.
Because you put out something like I
have a post come out What's today? We're
recording on Wednesday. I had a post
come out yesterday. And then I'm it's
like, "What's next week?" All right.
That's done.
All the work you put into it, over.
What's coming out next week? And it's
like every week.
So, the big question I I don't have an
answer to is where this all goes long
term.
Cuz someday
whether it's at uh 7 years old or 100
years old or 60 years old, I don't know.
Like maybe I won't be able to do this
every single week. So,
I think about where does this all go? I
don't think there's a answer to like
Substack writer podcast life long term.
Like what do you do?
>> According to the Lindy, right?
>> There you go.
>> So, 2019 you have
7 more years. 7 years since the
newsletter.
>> So, I think yeah. Okay.
7 more years.
>> run out of ideas.
>> Okay. So, we got 7 years. I I could do
that.
>> Yeah. Okay. So,
speaking of the boulder, you don't seem
like a stressed out person and I don't
see you as a stressed out person only
like
potty training.
Sleep the you tell their baby sleep
stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> I don't see you as a stressed out
person.
Uh do you think there's anything behind
that? Do you think that's just you?
And or are you just stressed and doesn't
you don't show it?
>> I think there's an element of I'm more
stressed than I come across as and even
recognize in myself.
Like I get these headaches sometimes.
I'm like, "What is it going on there? Is
that stress or is that something else?"
So, I think there's a bit of I'm
probably more stressed than it looks
like and that I even feel.
But I think I'm probably less stressed
than the average person. I think part of
it is genetics.
And then part of it is I I work on it.
Like I just
have learned to adjust the way I think
to reduce
stress and to not take things seriously.
But I think I I think honestly it's
probably like 70% genetics. I'm just
like, "Yeah, it'll be all right. It'll
be all right." As you know, something we
argue about. "Nah, it'll be all right."
It's some like
raw chicken and it'll be fine.
It's fine.
>> Uh so, okay. Do you have any tools or
any kind of like any of done different
types of meditation? We've done
breathing course together. You know,
what Do you have a favorite? Do you
>> Oh, to like calm down and de-stress and
things like that?
>> you did a
10-day silent meditation right before
you
ended up writing the post.
>> Mhm. That's true.
>> That's true. That was a big wisdom. Oh,
here's something I've never shared.
Okay. You asked about going back to the
moments that led me to this life.
So, I went on a
uh bachelor party trip with some
friends. This isn't where you think it's
going.
>> I hope it's not.
>> So, it was a trip to Joshua Tree with a
friend. And uh there was psychedelics
involved on this trip.
Uh and I just remember So, we went to
Joshua Tree. I just sat down on this
rock
on a substance of some sort.
Uh and
and this was as I was starting the
newsletter.
And I just remember sitting there for
probably 3 hours in this one spot.
And I was just having this
deep breathing happening and this like
phrase of I have wisdom to share
coming through me over and over and
over. And I was just watching this crazy
visualization of some kind of
some sitting Buddha thing.
And it's just like
I have wisdom to share. And that was for
3 hours.
>> That made you write the post?
>> That made me
feel like I can do this. Like it gave me
the confidence that like, "Okay, maybe I
do have things to share." Yeah, that was
a really powerful moment just to give me
give me confidence that there's
something inside me that's like, oh
yeah, maybe I can I could do this thing.
So that was a big moment.
>> What do you want to say What do you want
to say to our mothers right now?
>> Oh no.
My mom doesn't know.
>> take that back?
>> No, no.
>> Do you want to crop it out?
>> This is um
Okay, Mom, I didn't I did I did I did
some stuff.
>> It's okay.
>> We Okay, so
>> to time to share.
>> And then yeah, you've done meditate you
did 10-day meditation, you did a
specific type of meditation that that
seemed to me to to affect you in like
physical ways.
>> Yeah.
>> And then you told me once about a
happiness course you took.
>> Yeah. That was actually pretty
transformative. I took this online
course at University of Pennsylvania
about uh the psychology of happiness.
And it was basically all the science of
what makes you happier and how to be
happier.
And that really had a big impact on me
because it showed you you can increase
your baseline level of happiness by
doing a few things. And one of the
things is just like thinking more
positively. Like thinking more
optimistically. There's also like
gratitude stuff that I didn't find as
useful. But there's just something about
you can Everyone's got this baseline.
That was actually a big learning from
that course is Everyone's just kind of
has baseline level of happiness. And you
could be like at 100, you could be at
zero. Probably more Most people are in
between somewhere.
And like something amazing happens, you
go all the way up in happiness and then
you come back to that baseline.
Something terrible happens, you go back
to that baseline.
And the main thing you can do is work on
improving that baseline so that you come
back to a higher place.
So that's what a lot of the
work is and what you learn in that
class.
And one of the things is just be
optimistic. Just kind of have a positive
outlook.
And don't let your mind kind of spiral
into these like, it's going to be
terrible.
So it was a lot of just like think more
positively. And I feel like my baseline
of
level of happiness has gone up.
And I think that it Yeah.
>> And you told me exercise, too. Like you
used to run.
>> Yes, that was a really good insight. So
exercise the the science This was like,
I don't know, 15 years ago. I'm guessing
there's new research. But, the
interesting thing there is
exercise doesn't make you happier, but
it brings you out of the negative. So,
you're negative one without exercise,
and exercise brings you to zero.
So, that you're not depressed,
basically.
>> Speaking of stress
>> Okay, then I have a question for you.
>> Oh, okay. Let's do this.
Let's do this.
Uh because
I know on your podcast you have a
lightning round.
>> Okay.
>> Um we're going to do a thunder round.
>> So, is that extra fast?
>> No, it's sound. Your one thing that I
think stresses you out
the most at times is uh your misophonia.
Which is you want to explain what it is?
>> Yeah, it's like
It's funny to talk about it, but it's
this I It's like this disorder.
It's like a real thing in the brain
where I get bothered by certain sounds.
And so, I get very bothered by people
eating with their mouth
>> Okay, thunder round is going to be top
five worst sounds.
Or you can rank these sounds.
>> Okay, okay. You're going to give me the
five.
>> Like like
best best sound to worst sound.
>> Okay.
>> Right? So, like 10 is worst.
>> Okay. What are like
What are the best sounds?
>> Okay, what's Okay, okay. Let's say
chewing. Chewing one to 10.
>> Chewing like with the mouth open, just
like
>> Chewing with the worst Yeah.
>> I hate it. 10 is the worst. Yeah,
it's you know.
It's probably it's in the Yeah, it's 10.
9 or 10.
>> Or like like nails on a chalkboard,
what's that?
>> That's like less bad for me.
>> Right. What's the number?
>> Like if it's on sitting right next to me
just like chomping away.
>> Yeah.
>> And it's so awkward to ask anyone to
stop. I hate doing that. It's like so
weird. They're like, "Shut up."
>> you're sweet.
>> But, it's just like, "What?"
>> Yeah.
>> I'm just sitting here eating. Leave me
alone.
>> Yeah. That's how I feel whenever I do
um by accident near you.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh okay. So, nails on a chalkboard,
what's
>> That's like six. I don't know, five.
>> What about um
>> I don't mind that.
>> What about like a baby crying or your
What's a baby crying versus your baby
crying?
>> Mhm.
Baby crying like uh So, 10 is the worst.
>> Yeah.
>> So like how loud? Like very loud baby
crying?
>> like in a in a newborn phase, like like
didn't know what to do, like
>> Oh, yeah. That was really Like when when
Jude was born
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, yeah. That was pretty hard.
It's thunder out. Okay.
Uh
like eight.
>> Okay. Okay. What about like um
when Jude says "Papa"?
>> Yeah.
>> One.
>> One is the best, yeah, and
>> Is there any other sound you
>> Jude laughing.
>> Okay.
>> Okay, you're going to say it. What about
like another bad sound?
>> Mhm.
I don't know.
>> Okay, you can you can ask me now if you
want.
>> Okay.
>> If you're getting
stressed
>> No, no, no. I don't like there's not
that many bad sounds. It's just like
very specific bad sounds that I'm just
like
>> Basketball?
>> You know, if there's just like if I'm
trying to calm like be calm and there's
like a bunch of commotion, like okay, uh
like a gas, you know, blower.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> I'm trying to work, you know.
>> That's I think a notorious one for
people. What is that a 10?
>> It's like if it's super loud and right
in my face, I would say let's say a
seven.
>> Okay.
>> That's a bad
>> You can ask your question now if you
want, or I have more for you.
>> I'm going to ask you a question. So
uh so you make these incredible genius
funny charts. There's one example on
this book. So you have this first book
here called Am I Overthinking This,
which a lot of people identify with.
It has sold many copies.
Uh so you're you create all these charts
that try to
synthesize things in life, things people
experience, things people feel. A lot of
these charts get shared on socials by
people that steal your charts and just
pretend like they made this or just
found it and they cut out your
attribution.
They make pillows and mugs and there's
like all these websites that sell all
these charts you've made
just like on swag that you get no credit
for.
I know it's bothered you a lot over the
years. What makes your charts so
shareable, so widely? How do they go so
viral so often?
>> By the way, I stopped looking at that
cuz it doesn't help me. Anyway, um
>> That's good. I think that's for the
best.
>> Well, I think like I think as
as your thing has gotten more
successful, it's like not as important
to me. I do think it's interesting that
they are often like detached from me,
which is I don't know why. But, um
>> Yeah, people want to get credit.
>> when they do. Um and it I I think I can
figure out some of them it's clear when
I make it whether it's like I make it
and then I let it sit and then some
other some like moment happens or I'm
like, "Oh no, this is what it needs."
and then I'm like, "Now it's Now I can
feel that's really good." and
usually it's like it's something that
makes me laugh or cackle even though I
made it. It's like like it's like, "Oh,
I've already seen this in my own brain
and it's still funny to me." or makes me
kind of like tear up, then I feel like,
"Okay, I think people are going to like
this." I am often wrong.
And sometimes too, like there are things
there's something from that book that I
didn't share at all, but someone took a
photo of it. That's how it went viral is
like just a photo of a page of a book
that people loved.
>> Like it wasn't even like a digital
high-quality picture. It's just like
someone took a photo, yeah.
>> Yeah, which is interesting as well, but
and also people's attention spans
sometimes they're just what I what I
like to make is things that are really
simple
and
quick and
show you something you haven't thought
of before.
And I think that if it's really easy to
digest
people's attention spans are short these
days and if it makes them feel something
is another thing and it's also nice to
make something that's
that isn't a lot of like physical labor
because some things you can make and it
can take you forever
to draw out because my brain does work
in this like overthinking kind of way of
like this, but then oh this, then this.
People like it when it's really simple.
>> Yeah. I love your point about like
the way you know a chart is done is
intrinsically you feeling like this is
hilarious. This is makes you laugh,
makes you feel something and it's
similar to the way I think about my
newsletter posts and
yeah, more more with the newsletter than
the podcast is it just to me it feels
like this is like really interesting and
really good. It's very like not waiting
for other people to give you,
you know, approval or feedback. It's
like
I feel this is good.
And I think that's really interesting
that that's similar to the way I
approach my stuff. I find that when you
work on your charts,
uh
you're like you think so many levels
deep. They're like they're like so
they're like too clever sometimes and I
feel like cuz it's your point, people
have a short attention span. Sometimes
they're like too clever and I have to
like, okay, this is too many layers you
have to understand and I have to like
that's a little much. You have to like
simplify it a little bit.
Yeah.
>> Yeah, you're my editor.
Sometimes.
>> I try but you're like, no, you're like,
I don't care. I don't I don't care about
your feedback. You're
>> No, you're you're usually probably
right.
>> Yeah. Okay, let me ask you one more
question and then we could switch it
around again.
How do you come up with your ideas for
your charts? You have so many
such variety. You had an adult book, you
had a children's and now you have a
children's book. Uh you're working on
like charts for parents, you have all
this other stuff going on.
Where do your ideas come from, Michelle?
>> The ideas come from just living life and
noticing noticing a lot of things and
then also kind of
um observing
a lot. I I know that I've been really
prolific when I've been meditating and
it in meditation you
learn to kind of observe your own
thinking and if you're anxious about
something like, oh, I'm that's funny
that I was anxious about that. Random
thing that I I've never thought about it
that way before and which is interesting
because it is kind of like overthinking
every moment,
which it meditation shouldn't be
teaching you to do, but that's what
happens. But I I've noticed if I focus
too much on my work, I stop living life
and then I stop having ideas.
And it's a little different with
children's books, which is what I'm
working on right now
because it's not like relatable
things. A little bit, but it's um more
children's concepts. But the adult stuff
has to be just through living life.
>> Noticing, yeah.
>> Yeah, noticing.
>> Makes me think about I think David
Sedaris had this story where he just has
to say yes to everything he's invited to
just cuz he needs to have experiences
cuz he just has to keep pumping out
stories. So he's just like, "Sure, let's
go to Vegas right now. Let's do it."
So I feel like that's a lot of the work
here is just a
live real life. You can't just kind of
sit there and come up with ideas. You
have to
try stuff and do crazy things.
>> Yeah, so the first So my first
children's book, which is is out soon.
Um that one actually came out of kind of
observing parenthood and early new
parenthood moments. That's how I
started. I started at the beginning of
the notebook writing kind of like trying
to make charts for new parents, but we'd
been reading so many
kids books together that I just had this
like da da da da da da da like rhythm in
my head of children's books. And so what
it I just turned to the back of the
notebook and started writing
more like children's book rhymes
involving cats.
>> of a notebook cuz you're working on a
different book and you're just like
>> I had this notebook. I
I had to I had to put my questions in
for you.
>> What?
>> Yeah, and so I started off in the front.
Um I'm not going to show you.
>> So you started in the front on a
different idea.
>> I started off in the front charts for
new parents.
And then I was like got, you know, a few
in
you know, like a good amount in. And
then I was just in the park writing and
then I kind of was just like, "Yeah, but
I I have always wanted to do these
charts for kids or for babies."
And I just kept wanting to
write that. So I started in the back and
then I filled it up that way.
>> I love that this is another example of
just following pull
and not just doing the thing that you're
doing. Just like, "Huh, this is pulling
me in. I'm going to try it and just see
where it goes."
Look at this.
What a callback. Okay, back to you,
Michelle.
>> Okay, back to you.
>> Back to me. Back to you through me.
Through you.
>> Okay. Okay, so um tell me about
I I do want to ask you this question,
inspired by our friend who like reverse
nicknames you and says like Leonard. Is
your name full name Leonard? Where does
Lenny come from?
>> the way, reverse nickname meaning they
give you nickname without you like
asking them to.
>> there's people who give you a nickname
without you asking.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> He gives you the full name.
>> Oh, I see. Makes it long.
>> Yeah.
Is that a thing? I'm just making it up.
>> Okay, I like that. Okay, so the question
is my Well, my real name
uh so when I moved to the US from the
Ukraine, which we recently chatted about
on a podcast with Boris, which turned
out to be a big big news
>> Oh, that's
>> for people I got to say, yeah. My
parents named me Leonid.
Was my real official first name in the
US.
But, they called me Lenny. Everyone
called me Lenny. And so when we became
citizens, you could change your name.
And so my parents just changed it to
Lenny. So, that's my real name.
>> It's just Lenny. No No Leonard.
>> Leo. Yeah.
>> No, yeah, Leonard though.
>> Just Lenny.
>> Yeah.
>> I love it.
And Leonid as in it's it's a Russian
name or there's also the like
star constellation.
>> Oh, the Leonids. I don't know. I think
they just asked their friends just like,
"What is My Russian name is Lonya." And
so I think they just like, "What's the
English version of that?" And I'm
guessing some of their friends are just
like, "Leonid."
I don't know if they named it after
anything
specific.
>> Can I share any of your nicknames? I'm
going to assume now.
>> What are my nicknames? Okay, go for it.
>> Uh
I don't know what they are. Like
Lonchik.
>> Okay, sure. I could try that. Sure.
>> Do you like it? Do people call you that?
>> Well, it's like my family calls me that.
Yeah. It's like a Russian Yeah, it's
like a Russian little nickname, Druchik.
>> Yeah.
And you Okay, but like strangers, can
they call you that?
>> Uh no, don't call me that.
>> Okay, okay. And speaking of strangers,
how do you feel when people approach
you? And And is it weird at all? Like
Like Like does it remind you how
big your newsletter has gotten? Or like
Do you like it?
Do you like certain ways of approaching
it?
>> Yeah, so I guess what you're uh speaking
to is when I walk around the Bay Area in
particular, people often recognize me,
which is extremely weird. And started
with the podcast once it Like
interestingly, I had the newsletter for
4 years.
>> Yeah, you got to be like you got to be
stealth.
>> Yeah, like my face was tiny in some
Twitter profile. But I once I started
the podcast, people just
Yeah, it just It was like very weird the
first time it started happening and then
And now it happens uh quite a lot. I
like it a lot. It's very cool. I really
appreciate it. It makes me feel really
nice.
I'm not bothered by it in any way. Uh it
always is very flattering. People are
always so nice and just have endless
nice things to say. I've never had a bad
experience though when just trying to
say hi to me. So
please say hi.
>> What if Okay, that's great.
>> And I often ask people what's their
favorite podcast episode or favorite
newsletter cuz I'm just curious. I
I always ask just like, "You're founder?
You're product person?" Like what's your
story? Yeah, it's really
>> if you're in the middle of if you're
like at a coffee shop and you have
headphones on and somebody says like,
"Hey." Or if you're like playing with
your kid, what do you think?
>> I think you're projecting
>> Right.
>> about what you wouldn't want.
>> Girl, yeah.
>> People don't do that. I think people
have been generally very conscious. You
know, there could be a moment of just
like we're getting somewhere and I can't
talk for too long and I don't want to be
rude.
>> Or you're like in a focus. It's
>> Yeah.
>> But But then
Yeah.
>> It hasn't been a problem yet.
Uh almost like 99% of people have been
very considerate. Yeah. And I don't want
people to feel like they can't just talk
to me and say
>> Yeah, that's cool.
>> Yeah, they're always so cool.
>> I like that.
>> Yeah.
>> Is there any like instance of delightful
>> Like maybe the first time this happened
uh we live in Marin and
I was walking over through San Anselmo
with you, as you remember, and there's
this guy in a little red car driving by
with his son. He's driving by and we're
on the sidewalk, and then he just yells,
"Lenny, I love your podcast!"
And this wasn't even in San Francisco.
It was in San Anselmo. And I was uh
shocked. And then he just kept He like
held up traffic just to say hello. I'm
like, "Oh my god."
>> Yeah, I wouldn't do that.
>> Yeah, probably wouldn't do that. And
then I met him later. He runs the
Hamburger Club in Marin. He's very cool.
Cuz I saw him again at another coffee
shop. So, that was quite delightful.
>> I love that.
Uh, okay. You had just said something
Okay, people coming up to
Um, okay, you're going to have to cut
this. Because
>> See, and then we're not going to cut it
cuz this is what I go through, too, as a
podcast interviewer.
>> I thought of something. I lost it.
>> This is what I'm constantly dealing
with. That is a challenge of the
interviewer. And I think it's fun for
people to see cuz you're like, "Okay, I
have to think about what's I'm going to
say next." And then you're like, there's
a stop, and then you're like, "Oh, [__]
What was it going to be?" So, that's why
I on when I do the podcast, I'm secretly
writing notes to myself constantly.
>> I I Okay.
>> Chicken notes?
>> Yeah, well, okay, I closed my Okay, I
should have written it down. Let's talk
about like thinking back to what what
kind of
um hints that you would start this
newsletter or like
things that you worked on when you were
younger that are
>> They helped me out.
>> Like like a little like or like mildly
adjacent or like, you know, cuz you had
some what you had like some websites,
you had atheist spot, you had like you
had some
>> tutorials
>> tutorials. That's one.
>> So, the question is like, what are the
things I did earlier that helped me with
the work I do now?
>> Or yeah, just cuz just looking back like
anything that that is kind of like makes
it obvious that you would have have this
newsletter or like a little more
>> I don't think there's anything that
would have pointed
me or anybody to this being the thing
that I do now. It's completely
unexpected personally and I don't think
anyone saw coming.
Uh I had never written anything online
before I started writing. I was always
not like, "Hey, look at me. I've got all
the answers and I have all this wisdom
to share." It was always like,
"I'm an introvert. I'd like to kind of
stay behind the scenes." So,
it was a it's a very unexpected path for
me and part of the reason I think I was
able to do it is uh the newsletter
started during COVID so I could just sit
there and type and put stuff out online.
I didn't have to go anywhere and like
tell everyone. I could stay like in my
little hole.
But, just to
uh follow through on these things you
pointed out that I did earlier cuz uh I
don't think I've ever talked about these
things. I had all these different side
projects
before uh like through college, I guess.
Yeah, through college. I was like a very
uh
uh big atheist and I'm still an atheist,
Jewish atheist, which is many Jews. But,
I was like very into it before and now
I'm like, "Okay, I don't care. Whatever.
Believe it or don't believe."
Uh so, I used to run a website called
the atheists pot.com, which was Reddit
for atheist news.
Which is not a you know, Reddit is that.
It's fine. I don't you don't need it.
But, I went to like there's like
conventions we went to.
Atheist conventions.
Uh so, I did that. And the funny thing
is that was the during AdWords when
Google AdWords was a way to monetize
your site. And so, all the ads on the
site because most of the articles were
about religion were all these religious
dating sites. So, it was like Christian
Mingle and then like all these funny
dating sites that didn't make sense for
the audience.
So, I always thought that was funny. And
then uh I worked with a friend on this
other project called U torials, which
was so ahead of its time. The idea was U
torials, tutorials for you by you.
>> Nice.
>> And so, it was people contributing
things they've learned and writing a
how-to. Like how to make eggs, how to
take a quick shower. And there was all
these
>> That's like TikTok. Right?
>> It's like TikTok. It was before
Wikipedia, I think.
>> No, no, I know, yeah.
>> Yeah, it's like YouTube. It's like,
yeah.
>> That's like what I watch TikTok for is
like watching people make
>> Yeah, and parenting advice, and things
to be afraid of.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, and dance videos, yeah. So, it was
>> That's what your thing was, or that's
what TikTok is?
>> That's what TikTok is, right? Yeah.
So, yeah, I was really proud of that.
>> Yeah.
>> It sounds good It sounds like it was
ahead of its Local Mind was ahead of its
time.
>> And Local Mind, so that was my startup.
We sold to Airbnb.
>> Airbnb, that's all I got there.
>> Uh Local Mind, amazing idea and
not something anyone needs, really.
>> Mhm.
>> Uh
>> I still need it.
>> Like, you need it once in a while.
So, just to briefly explain what that
is, uh it was an app that sat on top of
Foursquare and Gowalla when that was
very cool, and allowed you to ask
questions of people
checked in anywhere in the world. So, if
you're like, "Is there a long line at
The Mill, which is near here? Should I
go? Is there a long line? What's like
the special?"
>> that, basically. The
>> Yeah, we use So, that Google does it
with their like, "Is it busy?" Yeah.
Like, you know, all these other ways
that you could solve this problem. It
was very cool. Uh
It was amazing. Nobody needs it, really.
>> But there's still things you want to ask
people.
>> it like once in a while. You need it
like once a quarter, and it's, "Holy
[__] that's so good." But, you know,
you can't make a business out of that,
so
I'm glad that we
we exited.
Today's episode is brought to you by DX,
the developer intelligence platform
designed by leading researchers. To
thrive in the AI era, organizations need
to adapt quickly, but many organization
leaders struggle to answer pressing
questions like, "Which tools are
working? How are they being used? What's
actually driving value?" DX provides the
data and insights that leaders need to
navigate the shift. With DX, companies
like Dropbox, Booking.com, Adyen, and
Intercom get a deep understanding of how
AI is providing value to their
developers, and what impact AI is having
on engineering productivity. To learn
more, visit DX's website at
getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
>> Okay, so you're mentioning the the
atheist spot with
bunch of religious dating sites.
>> Yeah.
>> Reminding me that you were my first
online date ever
>> Hell yeah.
>> on a
>> Snatch straight off.
>> platform called HowAboutWe.
And I remember that I mean you would had
other dates.
Um
>> Where is this going?
>> Anyway, no. But I remember you were like
um had
See, I think you had a thing for
designers.
>> Yeah.
>> And I wonder if you regret that
preference.
Like designer artist sort of like
>> No, not at all.
>> stereotype.
>> No, no.
>> Like I'm not like like you're pretty
neat.
>> Yeah, yeah, it's true. You're kind of
chaotic, yeah. Which is we can talk
about your process, but it's like it's a
messy process.
It's true. You know, we have a good yin
yang.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, I'm just like
>> unstressed, unbothered. I'm
bothered.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm I'm stressed.
>> everywhere.
>> Yeah.
>> We got cleaners. They help things out.
>> Yeah, it's true. You know,
It's worth it.
>> Okay. So, you're okay with designers
still. Good.
Uh and then
>> As a as a wife?
>> Yeah, right, right.
>> Highly recommend.
>> Oh, okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Great. So, yeah, I was going to ask like
do you have any tips for cuz it's like
it's you know, there's there's something
you said recently which was like you
don't have any co-workers. I was like
I'm your co-worker. We work at home. Um
but yeah, do you feel do you ever feel
like lonely not cuz you were always
really social. And then this goes into
two like even before you were niche
famous or whatever we want to call it.
>> how I describe it.
>> always coming up to you on the street
like hey, you know.
>> Yeah, from Airbnb.
>> cuz you're
organizing things and
um do you feel like you miss off office
culture?
>> Hm. I have People asked me that over the
years and I've always like no, it's
amazing. I don't need that. Like I could
just do my own thing and I don't need
people around. But I've kind of started
to feel that a little bit. I've just
like huh, there's no one." Like I just
sit at home all day and just like but
>> Our dog likes to be right next to you.
>> Yeah. Yeah, he's sweet.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh so, I do feel like I do miss it now.
It's not like a huge problem, but it's
just like, you know, it'd be cool to
just jam with someone on stuff. And I
have a team and I have you
and Twitter. Like
>> Well, you like to go to coffee shops.
>> I like to go to coffee. Yeah,
>> What do you get?
>> But it's like bowling alone and kind of
I don't know. It's like Is that a good
metaphor like this?
>> And you have your headphones you put
your headphones on, too. And you're
focused.
>> Yeah. So, it would be fun. Like I have
an awesome team and we jam on stuff, but
it's not like Like I think there's a I
do miss having someone next to me that
I'm just working with on the same thing.
But I also am trying very hard to never
have
full-time employees. I'm trying to keep
things really simple
because it's so easy to build this thing
into like this whole thing that's
complicated that I'm like, "What have I
done?" One of the challenges with this
life is you can create a job for
yourself that you hate
by doing things that people want you to
do or by following that feel
big
and then you're like, "I hate this."
So, I'm trying to be really
careful about what I commit to and do.
Coming back to your question, I do miss
it some, yeah. It's like a new thing
I've realized that I miss is being
around other people like working on the
same thing.
>> Yeah. So, speaking of other people like
coming up to you and being around other
people,
it I think it's become harder for you
now that Now that people you don't know
come up to you because I think you
actually have a little bit of face
blindness.
>> Absolutely.
>> Okay, yeah. People who do know you
come up to you and you're like and
you're like waiting to know if if they
just listened to your podcast or if you
>> Like I know if I know that Like Yeah.
Yeah, this is a big problem for me. It's
like a
It's like another brain disorder, I
guess, where I just don't remember
people's names. I'm so bad at it. So, I
just like, "I know you.
Who are you?"
It's like people texting you from a new
number. I'm like, "Who is this?"
>> Yeah, sometimes I feel like that Devil
Wears Prada um assistant where I'm like,
"That's Emily. You worked with her at
Airbnb." Or that's not
>> you don't do that. You need to do that.
>> I I do it sometimes.
>> You do that sometimes? Okay.
Yeah, so bad at that. Okay, so if you
come up to me and you say hello and I
don't recognize you, please, I'm sorry.
I'm really bad at it. And yeah, it's
like gotten worse cuz now I know more
people through the podcast and
newsletter and like
>> Right. And you just know a lot of
people.
>> Yeah, it's like a lot of faces.
>> You're very kind. So people like you.
>> I try.
>> Yeah.
>> Try.
>> Okay. So going back to the like
unbothered
vibe that you have, tell me about a time
you've been really stressed in your
business and then a time you've been
really stressed in your personal life.
>> Okay, so on the business side, uh so I
have this product pass. So as a
subscriber to my newsletter,
you get 23 incredible products. And I
used to read them all. Linear, Mobbin,
Lovable, Replit, Gamma.
I stopped doing this cuz there's too
many now. I had the end of my podcast, I
just read through them all.
And now I can't do it anymore. There's
too many. I had a launch about a year
ago. It's about a year actually where I
launched you get a free year of Cursor
and Lovable and Bolt and Replit and V0.
I think that's five. And so
uh that was way too good an offer.
People
came for it. Bad people.
So I just had so many fraudsters,
mostly in China, it turned out. Just
like all these fraud rings in China
trying to find ways to steal all my
all these free goodies. So they set up
all these
crazy attacks and I had to work with
Stripe and Substack to just like shut
them down.
And they just found all these little
exploits in our API that we built and
like this So it's like such a nightmare
cuz we're just like waking up to
like every night I was like hard to
sleep and I have I have this engineer
uh Este who's
so incredible and he like didn't sleep
for a week.
Stopping filling all these holes because
all there's a lot of a lot of smart
clever bad guys out there. So that was
extremely stressful. Like it could
trickle down into the whole thing
falling apart if everyone's like, "Oh my
god, can't trust Lenny anymore."
So as you remember it's very stressful.
I didn't sleep too well. And it was like
very scary. And there's all these They
just kept popping up and there's all
these like rings and it went viral in
China, too. That's like in the student
network. They just Ooh, [__] You got a
year free of Cursor and Lovable and
Replet and Bolt and V0.
Uh, so
it was very stressful.
To answer your question on the personal
side. Okay, so when our baby was born,
the birth was very complicated.
Uh, you had to get a C-section
because the induction wasn't getting it
there cuz yeah, it was complicated.
>> Complicated. We don't get
>> And normally I feel like I would tell
the story, but
>> You weren't awake.
>> But this is also like a When Harry Met
Sally, but it's like how the the
pregnant person almost died.
You know? But okay, but it's from your
perspective because I didn't get to
experience it.
>> Right.
>> So.
>> Yeah, so what happened is we had to You
had to do a cesarean.
They gave you an And so the idea is they
bring you into the operating room.
They do the anesthetic.
The epidural or whatever it's called and
then they let the husband and the
partner in. And so I was waiting in the
hall waiting for them to do the
anesthetic.
>> Your scrubs.
>> They gave me a whole bunny suit. Yeah,
super sterile. Just standing there in
this bunny suit thing. And the idea is
they do the anesthetic and I can come
in. And then watch the birth and all
that stuff and 5 10 minutes in I just
hear beep beep beep beep beep beep beep
beep beep beep beep beep.
And the doctor runs out, scrubs her
hands, runs back in. And then all of the
two other people run from another room
down the hall into the room.
And I was like, uh-oh.
Uh, and then it was like
>> You were
>> I was scared. I was very scared.
Because I had no idea what was going on.
It didn't sound good.
>> Nobody told you anything.
>> Nobody's telling me anything. I'm
supposed to be in there. No one's coming
out like, here's what's happening. And
it was like 10 minutes of just nothing.
>> Yeah. And you were supposed to be in
there after like
a minute?
>> Yeah, it's going to be quick. Yeah.
Yeah, it's supposed to be like, I'm
going in. We're going to do this it's
right now. And like you're awake during
it, you know, in real life. So, just
remember pacing down the hall
using going back to the lessons I've
learned just like, it's going to be
okay. It's going to be okay.
That's what I remember saying to myself.
Just kind of trust that they know what
they're doing, you know. We're in a
hospital. There's a lot of doctors
around.
And and then eventually they came back
and they just said that the epidural
went the wrong direction. And so instead
of going down, it went up your body and
so it was stopped It was stopping your
heart and lungs and they had to intubate
you and
do an emergency intubation and get the
baby out and then took like an hour for
you to come back. They were They were
going to put you in ICU to help you come
back.
So. And that was very scary cuz you
weren't there. I didn't know what was
going on.
>> And you got to hold You got to hold the
baby for like an hour.
>> Yeah.
>> Without So, that's why he's like a
he's like
only papa. He's a He's another person
that
that prefers you.
>> Who's the other person?
>> Our dog.
>> You know.
>> Cuz you're For now. For now.
>> you know, you're sweet sweet guy. But
yeah, it's uh
>> Yeah, that was really scary.
>> Stressful. I kept telling myself it was
going to be okay.
>> Yeah. That was That was the thing that
helped. But it was like very scary cuz
it's just like life could be completely
different now. Like something like
you know, like you could have like the
guy that anesthesiologist said it was a
one in 50,000 chance.
And it's like the worst scenario that is
very rare and very dangerous.
And so
it was extremely scary. And and luckily
he did a great job and everyone's like,
"He killed it." He did like he
he knew exactly what to do. He handled
it really well. But
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, and I don't have any memory of
that.
>> It numbed my
>> came back.
>> numbed my lungs and I was like, "I can't
breathe." And then it And then it numbed
my
spinal What is it? Brain stem and then I
passed out.
>> How about that?
>> How about that? I didn't have to get to
have any
>> Yeah. How does it looking back? Are you
Are you
>> We don't have to talk about it.
>> Okay.
>> Look at No, yeah. It's uh that that's
the that's what you said, but it's
interesting to like not have an
experience around it. And the experience
was like the live experience is more
>> Yeah, it's probably the scariest
moment of my life.
>> Yeah, and I didn't I wasn't I didn't
know anything about it
because they put me under general
anesthesia and then I was all loopy. And
then I didn't even know really what And
then later I read the report like a
month later I read it. I actually had
someone else read it who was in the
field and she's like Cuz your cousin
Lois and she like moved her thick
glasses like, "Wow."
>> Yeah, she's like a nurse back then,
yeah.
>> Anyway, stressful moment.
Uh yeah. So, you used your tools.
>> Yeah, I used my tools. Otherwise, you
know, that's a good point cuz it could
have been like spiral like, "Oh my god."
>> had a doula, but she had left.
>> The doula was going to be there, yeah.
But for cesarean, she's like, "I can't
be here." Yeah. Okay, I want to ask you
a question, but unless you have
something you want to follow up with.
>> Okay. So, you come up with these
incredible charts. They're just like You
know, it's like the kind of charts you
see on the internet that are like, "Oh
my god, that's so genius." And watching
you come up with it is so
wild cuz it just it just like it pops
out of nowhere. And then there's like a
little bit of iteration and then like,
"That's it." What's the process for you
coming up with a chart? And what's like
the environment that you need to create
your best work? I feel like coffee is a
big part of it.
>> Coffee is like It's like not too much
There There's one I have that it's like
I mean, it has to be the perfect amount
of coffee. So, I actually usually get a
single shot.
>> know about a the bomber peak, by the
way? Quick tangent.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. So, there's a concept called the
bomber peak.
>> Yeah.
>> From XKCD, which is just the right
amount of alcohol where you're the most
insightful and creative, and then it
falls down, which is like, I don't know.
I forget why this is Steve Ballmer
related, but
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, the bomber peak of coffee
>> that about coffee, but it's not it's
made out of a little coffee straw, and
it's like
>> We're going to show this on YouTube if
you're watching this, so you could see
the chart.
>> It's like, I'm a genius, and then I'm
having a panic attack. And so, that's me
is is like is like, yeah, I'll get to
this point where I feel like I mean,
coffee is a drug, right? So, if I have
too much, it is like a drug, and I'm I
feel like a genius, and I'm like having
all these ideas, but then I think it's
it's too like, I don't know if this was
a real image, but there was an image of
spider webs, and it's like, this is a
spider web
that ingested some
>> Right.
>> this
>> LSD and stuff in coffee.
>> And then this is this that had spider
that had coffee, and it's like, instead
of a regular web, it's like a web that
goes like this.
Like, it's like just erratic and
tangential, and I have some some really
good some really good like seeds of
ideas in those moments, then I have to
go like scream into a pillow or
something.
>> Was that when you have too much coffee,
or is that
>> I drink too much coffee. But but if
there's a point like right before that.
>> So, single shot latte.
>> is what I get. Single shot latte.
At least an hour, sometimes it's good to
have a like a somewhere I have to be
to a time limit, and then I'm kind of
like a
I feel like a machine.
Uh and it's like trying really hard to
get somewhere, and and then the other
thing is just like a lot of it is
writing something down as I'm out in the
world. Like, writing and then
putting it trying to put it on paper in
a way that visualizes it because I'm not
strong at drawing, so and yeah, when I
was a kid, my dad did a lot of math with
me and a lot of like
you know, fractals and visualization and
patterns, and so I sort of think that
way.
Um like mathematically kind of, and um
Yeah, so it helps me to visualize an
idea uh
that in the simplest way possible.
>> Let me just say this is very cool that
we're doing this. This is like really
fun.
So sweet.
>> Oh.
>> Yeah, this was like really nice.
>> Yeah. This our Odessa moment.
Yeah.
>> You're born in Odessa, too?
>> No.
No, but one of my questions was like um
I don't know.
This would be like if I were in the
audience, it would be more like a
comment
>> Right.
>> versus a question.
>> We're going to pretend it's going to be
a question.
>> Yeah, we're both uh our families are
both from countries that like mine from
Venezuela, yours from Ukraine, where
people are always like, "Oh."
Does that like like we didn't just
arrive
>> Right.
>> from Venezuela or
>> from Ukraine, so it's like not
>> Yeah.
>> the same.
>> So we have to like almost make them feel
be okay. Like it's okay. I mean, so my
family still lives in Venezuela, but
>> Okay, so I asked you a question, okay.
Um
>> Oh.
>> It's back to you.
>> Okay, great.
>> Yeah. Well, yeah, no, okay, let me
reflect back what you said. Cuz this is
really interesting. So a single shot
like so it's like some kind of like
uh neuro
stimulation, I don't know. Single shot,
just enough.
Uh I like this deadline piece. That was
really interesting.
>> And it's like not too much time, not not
like not 30 minutes. Although that it
that can be why I'm late often is I'm
like, "I just I've almost got it. I
just, you know." I I I'm a time
optimist, as you know, that I'm like, "I
I can think I have it." And then but but
a good good time is like 2 hours. And
then
I I have to be somewhere in 2 hours.
>> Interesting. Okay, so those are two
elements, and then was there another to
for optimal creativity?
>> Oh, and a good night of sleep. Yeah.
>> Yeah, something you're working on.
>> the bad night of sleep plus plus too
much caffeine then you don't have any
you know, you have no ideas, you just
have the like frantic piece of the
caffe- the like the mental energy.
>> Anything else? This is a this is really
interesting. I think just the idea of
what is what creates creativity.
>> Mhm. Just like experiences.
Experiences and thinking and and almost
like thinking too much about them.
>> Thinking too I like that. Maybe
overthinking.
>> Yeah, right.
>> Back to you, Michelle Rial.
>> Over to back to me to you.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, we did the thunder
round. We did the
the the worst things to hear. Okay. And
the best sounds, which your son's
>> Yeah.
>> laugh.
And great. Do you Okay, we probably know
your favorite like product management
books. Do you have a favorite children's
book other than mine?
To read to
>> Charts for babies.
>> to and also like and also maybe you
could you could do more than one because
that you know they like
maybe there's one when he was a baby
>> Like I feel like a chart is
and you never take my ideas cuz I feel
like you don't want to
>> I don't want to
>> it to be your ideas?
>> Yeah.
>> But I feel like there's a books you love
that are children's books and books your
kid loves. Right? And that's like
I hate reading this one, but he loves
it. So, we're going to do it.
>> Yeah.
>> So, it's like he decides what his
favorite are. I love Jon Klassen books.
They're so like
beautiful and just like
sweet.
So, those have been really great.
>> They're like actually not sweet. You're
right. There's like death in all of
them.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, they all end in death.
>> Yeah, like "Dude, the bunny thing is
like he ate the bunny?"
>> Was it the bear the bear book?
>> Yeah.
>> Like "He stole my hat."
>> Yeah, like we start the book and he's
like
"He ate the bunny?"
"Where's the bunny?" Like in his belly.
>> But does Yeah, is there any like
overlap? Do you think there's a favorite
that that that one is that's his
favorite that you now love because that
you didn't love initially?
>> Yeah, like Dr. Seuss.
I think we similarly really feel it's
like way too long this one
cuz it's like 50 pages, 60 pages. Like,
come on.
>> Yeah, it's a lot of words and there's
just like all these made up
animals and
and like he's like, "What's a zong?"
>> Yeah.
>> Like, "There, that's a zong."
>> like
>> like trying to teach them real things in
the world and then he's like, "What is
the tail of a zong?" It's like, "What?"
>> The Vipper from Vip? Yeah.
>> No.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. I don't like
that.
Uh
>> But we like But we like reading them.
>> We've kind of used Yeah, there's like a
rhythm.
>> But like anything in Spanish I read to
him obviously.
And yeah, I mean
anything you want to say about like
I don't know. Is there any sort of like
product
ca- anything you've learned in product
management or like growth that has
translated to parenting?
>> You know, like
product management is
all about influence, and that's
basically parenting.
>> he likes you better.
>> Why? Cuz I can influence? But he also
have to make him do stuff, you know?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> They're like you do have authority, you
know?
Uh all the responsibility without the
authority, but you do have authority, so
it's easier.
>> the I think they're like toddlers that
hold the authority.
>> It's true.
Just like nope. Here's the You sit
there.
>> Yeah. I feel like I see your product
management in that like you make him
Like I should be the one making him a
chart, but you make you make him like
the like
"Here's how if bedtime gets too long,
you're like here's how bedtime's going
to go. We're going to read you three
books, you get a star." It was
And then also I'm answering for you.
Sorry.
>> Uh other things where it's like things
where it it's where I'm kind of like,
"Yeah, it just happens the way it
happens." You're like, "No, I read a
book on it. I read three books on it.
And this is how we're going to do it.
And and that's And it's going to work."
Sometimes it works, sometimes it
doesn't.
>> Right.
Yeah, I'm not like an intuition guy. I'm
just like what have the smartest people
figured out about this? This isn't the
first time somebody has tried to
shorten bedtime.
>> Right. Shorten bedtime, sleep through
the night.
>> Right.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, there's like Yeah, there's like
smart people that have tried this stuff
before.
Yeah.
And they can tell me what they've done.
>> Small eye roll.
And okay, so I guess this is I think my
last question for you, and I don't know
if you want to answer it, but
like I, as your wife, uh of however many
years, like 10,
still I don't think I know what product
management is. Do you Can you tell me in
five words?
>> Mhm.
It's hilarious. Okay, I will My words
are impact,
collaboration,
judgment, alignment,
and
This is a really good question, and it's
almost like the the order is like how
you think about product management.
Like, you know, it's like the order you
put them in.
And what else?
I'm just saying some stuff, cuz it's
really interesting. Coordination.
>> I think that's five.
>> Organizing.
Planning.
>> Okay.
>> Outcomes.
>> I have just tuned out.
>> There's so many. You're just like, shut
up. So boring.
And I'm just like, what should have I
said? That's what I'm going to think
about now. But it's, yeah, it's like a
crazy weird job, all these different
things.
Yeah. I'm just like, snap out of it. I
keep thinking
>> Mhm. Yeah, I keep
>> I'll give you my definition of product
management.
>> Yeah, well, you can't say mini CEO.
>> No, no mini CEO. That's That's not cool.
Although I actually do think a PM is a
mini CEO. Like, I think people keep
saying you're not, but I think you are.
>> Yeah, you can't say like not a proj-
project manager.
>> Not a project manager. That's right. I
think the way I describe it is
uh your job as a product manager is to
deliver business impact by
prioritizing and solving the most
impactful
business problems.
Something like that.
That's many words.
>> Yeah.
>> You're like, this is why I never know
what it is. It's so boring. What are you
even talking about?
>> Cool.
>> Like, this comes back to the mini CEO
thing just to close that thread. I feel
like the PM on the team is basically
should be thinking the way the CEO
thinks. You know, like their job is to
think, what would the CEO
do on this specific product or feature?
Because the CEO's job is make this
successful, make this business grow. And
so your job as a PM is to kind of
channel that. What will allow this team
and product to help the business be more
successful?
>> Do you feel like you're doing that as as
the I guess you are
>> I'm everything, you know, like in my
current world, right?
>> You're editor-in-chief, too.
>> Editor-in-chief, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. But I have a copy editor, I have
an editor, so I have I have help.
>> Oh, right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. People ask me what about product
management helped me do the job I do
now. I don't think there's anything, to
be honest, except just like things I was
already into, which is just being
organized,
having a very high bar for quality,
communicating like I think communication
maybe is just like how to succinctly
communicate points so that people grasp
them.
>> That's like
>> Whoa, look at this. So, we're the same.
Introducing
>> The gist just communicating something
simply.
>> Wow.
Well, let me ask you one more question.
So, maybe it's a close. You wrote two
adult books. You now did a children's
book.
Why the pivot to children's books? Why
did you decide to do a children's book?
>> I wanted to do a children's book based
on the first
adult book because I thought that charts
are so they're like a ton of early
learning concepts put together.
So, if you look at children's books,
they're you know, the themes are often
opposites,
colors, shapes,
feelings, um and then I just I was
thinking like you can really
you can really teach a lot from a chart
and it's so simple.
So, it's a lot it's a lot of opposites.
It's big and small.
It's
it's uh you've got going up and going
down, you've got overlapping colors,
becoming another color. You've got you
can make a lot of feelings with with
charts. That's the second book in the
series that that I'm
>> It's coming out next year?
>> Yeah, but we but yeah, I'm I I finished
it, but it's you know, it's still takes
about a year
to to come out after that. But yeah,
it's it it was this like uh I wanted to
work on it in abstract. Like I had I had
the thought of wanting to work on it,
but it didn't come until I started
trying to work on another adult book
that I really just had all these rhymes
in my like I had it was more like a
cadence. I had just like this like da da
da da da, you know, in my head and and
yeah, I just tried it and it came really
quickly, the first draft.
And yeah, and it it also Yeah, I I
always wanted to make one because as as
a little girl, my dad wanted me to He
was a geophysicist.
He wanted me to be strong at math. He
was like, you know, cuz at the time it
was kind of like girls
um weren't encouraged necessarily to be
good at math. So he he from just like a
young age, he was always showing me I do
the same with our son, too. Like always
showing him
patterns and like, "Oh, if you flip it,
it's like that." And
it's just really fun for me.
And
it's it's cool, too,
uh writing the first one with like our
son growing up, learning from
experience, I guess, saying like having
the experiences
of him as a baby and like how I'm
learning how to teach him things. Then
he gets a little older and then that
helped me work on the the feelings. And
I've also learned how to speak to kids
as well. When I didn't have any, I was
like, "I don't know what to say to you."
And now it feels more natural. And so I
I I had a a children's book that I tried
to write before I had kids. And for me,
that one wasn't as good.
And so
I feel like I gained a little bit of
just like how to talk to
child.
>> That's a really good like segue or not
segue, I don't know, connection to
something that we've talked about a few
times is
the best stuff comes from like actual
experience. Like cuz you had a
children's book, like you just said,
that you wrote before you had Jude and
then it wasn't good. And now, having the
experience, you can actually make
something great.
>> Yeah, and then also like another thing I
thought about was just reading so many
children's books. And people always say
if you want to write, read.
And
yeah, we read a lot. We read still a lot
of lot of books.
And it's it just got me in that zone,
too.
>> Yeah.
It just makes me think about something I
think
has been key to my newsletter success is
uh it is based on like real life doing
the thing. Like So, at this point most
of my posts are guest posts
where somebody's sharing the best thing
they've learned in their career. Like
the one thing they want to share.
Which I love. And it all comes from
something I focus a lot on is from
people on the ground doing the thing,
not just floating the clouds
pontificating.
And
that's the source of the best advice is
from practitioners doing the thing for
real.
You know, not just pontificating.
It's just I think that's a really good
maybe one takeaway is just the best
stuff comes from
doing the thing and then sharing your
advice versus just thinking you know
what you're doing.
>> And communicating it simply.
>> Simply.
And just like refining. You don't even
get into just all the work that goes
into refining.
>> And then yeah, we you always talk about
like we Yeah, another thing I do is like
I often It's it's stressful because I
make things and I am not sure if they're
good enough yet and I put them to the
side and then I come back and and I
might have an idea knowing that it's
already in my head. I might have an idea
like, "Oh, yeah, that's what's going to
make that better." Or I go to work on it
again and some other thing adds to it.
But then as you've set it aside, then
you see something else. You see
something in the world like, "Oh, shoot,
somebody beat me to that thing I didn't
ever do anything with." Like
>> Yeah, I could see that myself. Yeah.
To like have something sitting like with
with maybe with your podcast and
>> Yeah. Well, let me ask you this and I'll
answer for my own myself. How many
iterations do you do on a chart on
average? Like how many times do you like
edit it and refine it?
>> Uh it depends.
>> Yeah. What's like What's like the
median?
>> At least five.
>> Okay.
Like for me I think it's like 60.
>> I was going to say 100.
>> Okay, that's probably the real answer.
Cuz that's how many times I've rewritten
>> even physically do that. It's like I I
need Yeah.
>> Yeah, it's just like
>> Well, what do you mean by
>> So, like when I write a newsletter post,
I go through it probably, let's say 50
times
making it better. Like I start, there's
like something that's the beginnings and
then read through it and add to it. Read
through it, add to it. Read through it,
add to it. Improve, improve, improve,
improve. Like 50 times. And then I have
my editor go through it and then have a
copy editor go through it and the
designer help me.
>> You don't do that with your emails,
though.
>> I No.
I should.
>> I do do that with my emails, which it
should be. I shouldn't be doing that.
Like I
>> to. I used to. Okay. I used to. I used
to.
>> But no, I do I Yeah.
>> Yeah. Anyway.
>> Yeah.
>> Anything else?
>> Oh, I mean, yeah, let me You plug Do you
want to plug?
>> Absolutely. Uh when is it coming out?
>> April 7th.
>> April 7th. That's like a few weeks, I
think, from when this comes out.
Assuming this comes out.
>> Yeah.
>> We'll see how it turns out.
>> We're going to check it out.
>> We'll check it out. If you're seeing
this, we checked it out. It was a
success.
>> Uh So, Charts for Babies coming out
April 7th.
>> April 7th.
>> Yeah.
>> All your favorite retailers.
>> Yep. Local bookstores.
>> Local bookstores.
>> Wherever you buy your book.
>> What's the age range of kids?
>> It's two to four. It's called for
babies. I did do it a tart recently
about like how long is your baby a baby?
And and it uh yeah, it's like baby is
this
infant is like one to two da da da and
then like it's your baby infinity. Yeah.
So, I've noticed like we still call him
the We're not really anymore. We like
the baby.
>> for sure.
>> Yeah. Um but he's like almost three. And
uh so, yeah, it could be like I would
say zero to four or
and uh yeah, you know what? Should I
grab it?
>> Yeah. Let's grab it. Let's just break
the frame.
>> I people on the recording here, but the
the first like the end paper is what
this is called. It shows all the like
things you can learn. Sizes, shapes,
lines, numbers, directions, feelings,
colors, amounts, sharing, concepts,
relationships, opposites. Anyway, I'm
not good at self-promotion, clearly. So,
let's all stop it.
>> it's uh it's it's a lot of learning.
>> It's beautiful, it's hilarious, it's
clever, it's
>> early learning concepts
>> funny
>> It's simply illustrated.
>> out.
>> It's rhyming.
>> Willing to it.
Uh congrats on releasing this book. And
that was a lot of work.
>> Thanks.
>> It was a lot of work.
>> I did have a lot of iterations.
>> The secret to success.
>> Yeah.
>> Iteration, editing.
>> Editing.
>> Okay.
>> Spending more time is what your old boss
used to say.
>> Spend more time on it.
>> Spend more time.
>> Glad.
>> Yeah.
>> Anyway.
>> Okay. All good? We done?
>> Michelle, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> I'll ask you my typical questions that I
ask at the end. How can Where do people
find you online? How can listeners be
useful to you?
>> My website michellemariel.com r i a l or
I'm also on Instagram not not too much
these days but still a little bit. You
all can look for the book Charts for
Babies.
>> Great.
>> Yeah. I don't know if when this will be
out you can either pre-order it or order
it.
>> Great.
>> One of the Yeah.
>> Parentheses pre but order.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Michelle, that's for me.
>> And I hope you like it and
thank you. Thanks for having me.
>> My pleasure.
>> I know you have a high bar.
>> Absolutely. You hit it.
>> Okay. Great. And yeah, I hope you were
okay with the interview.
>> A plus. It's going to It's going to do
numbers.
All right. Let's get out of here. Okay,
bye everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app.
Also, please consider giving us a rating
or leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennyspodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.